---
title: "Connecting to SQL Server (SybaseToSQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "08/18/2016"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "sql-ssma"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
applies_to: 
  - "Azure SQL Database"
  - "SQL Server"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Connecting to SQL Server"
ms.assetid: dd368a1a-45b0-40e9-b4d3-5cdb48c26606
caps.latest.revision: 15
ms.author: "lonnyb"
manager: "lonnyb"
---
# Connecting to SQL Server (SybaseToSQL)
To migrate Sybase Adaptive Server Enterprise (ASE) databases to SQL Server, you must connect to any of the target instances of SQL Server. When you connect, SSMA obtains metadata about all the databases in the instance of SQL Server and displays database metadata in the SQL Server Metadata Explorer. SSMA stores information about which instance of SQL Server you are connected to, but does not store passwords.  
  
Your connection to SQL Server stays active until you close the project. When you reopen the project, you must reconnect to SQL Server if you want an active connection to the server. You can work offline until you load database objects into SQL Server and migrate data.  
  
Metadata about the instance of SQL Server is not automatically synchronized. Instead, if you want to update the metadata in SQL Server Metadata Explorer, you must manually update the SQL Server metadata, as described in the "Synchronizing SQL Server Metadata" section later in this topic.  
  
## Required SQL Server Permissions  
The account that is used to connect to SQL Server requires different permissions depending on the actions that are performed by that account.  
  
-   To convert ASE objects to Transact-SQL syntax, to update metadata from SQL Server, or to save converted syntax to scripts, the account must have permission to log in to the instance of SQL Server.  
  
-   To load database objects into SQL Server, the minimum permission requirement is membership in the **db_owner** database role in the target database.  
  
-   To migrate data to SQL Server, the account should be a member of the **sysadmin** server role. This is required to run the SQL Server Agent data migration packages.  
  
-   To run the code that is generated by SSMA, the account must have **Execute** permissions for all user-defined functions in the **ssma_syb** schema of the **sysdb** database. These functions provide equivalent functionality of ASE system functions, and are used by converted objects.  
  
If the account that is used to connect to SQL Server is to perform all migration tasks, the account must be a member of the **sysadmin** server role.  
  
## Establishing a SQL Server Connection  
Before you convert ASE database objects to SQL Server syntax, you must establish a connection to the instance of SQL Server where you want to migrate the ASE database or databases.  
  
When you define the connection properties, you also specify the database where objects and data will be migrated. You can customize this mapping at the ASE schema level after you connect to SQL Server. For more information, see [Mapping Sybase ASE Schemas to SQL Server Schemas &#40;SybaseToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/sybase/mapping-sybase-ase-schemas-to-sql-server-schemas--sybasetosql-.md).  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]  
> Before you try to connect to SQL Server, make sure that the instance of SQL Server is running and can accept connections.  
  
**To connect to SQL Server**  
  
1.  On the **File** menu, select **Connect to SQL Server**.  
  
    If you previously connected to SQL Server, the command name will be **Reconnect to SQL Server**.  
  
2.  In the connection dialog box, enter or select the name of the instance of SQL Server.  
  
    -   If you are connecting to the default instance on the local computer, you can enter **localhost** or a dot (**.**).  
  
    -   If you are connecting to the default instance on another computer, enter the name of the computer.  
  
    -   If you are connecting to a named instance on another computer, enter the computer name followed by a backslash and then the instance name, such as MyServer\MyInstance.  
  
3.  If your instance of SQL Server is configured to accept connections on a non-default port, enter the port number that is used for SQL Server connections in the **Server port** box. For the default instance of SQL Server, the default port number is 1433. For named instances, SSMA will try to obtain the port number from the SQL Server Browser Service.  
  
4.  In the **Database** box, enter the name of the target database.  
  
    This option is not available when reconnecting to SQL Server.  
  
5.  In the **Authentication** box, select the authentication type to use for the connection. To use the current Windows account, select **Windows Authentication**. To use a SQL Server login, select **SQL Server Authentication** and then provide login name and password.  
  
6.  For Secure connection, two controls are added, the **Encrypt Connection** and **TrustServerCertificate** check boxes. Only when **Encrypt Connection** is checked, the **TrustServerCertificate** check box is visible. When **Encrypt Connection** is checked (true) and **TrustServerCertificate** is unchecked (false), it will validate the SQL Server SSL certificate. Validating the server certificate is a part of the SSL handshake and ensures that the server is the correct server to connect to. To ensure this, a certificate must be installed on the client side as well as on the server side.  
  
7.  Click **Connect**.  
  
**Higher Version Compatability**  
  
-   You will be able to connect to SQL Server 2008 and SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014 and SQL Server 2016 when the migration project created is SQL Server 2005.  
  
-   You will be able to connect to SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014 and SQL Server 2016 when the migration project created is SQL Server 2008 but you will not be able to connect to lower versions i.e. SQL Server 2005.  
  
-   You will be able to connect to only SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014 and SQL Server 2016 when the project created is SQL Server 2012.  
  
-   Higher version compatibility is not valid for SQL Azure.  
  
||||||||
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|**PROJECT TYPE Vs TARGET SERVER VERSION**|SQL Server 2005<br /> (Version: 9.x)|SQL Server 2008<br /> (Version: 10.x)|SQL Server 2012 <br />(Version:11.x)|SQL Server 2014 <br />(Version:12.x)|SQL Server 2016 <br />(Version:13.x)|SQL Azure|
|SQL Server 2005|Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes||  
|SQL Server 2008||Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes||
|SQL Server 2012|||Yes|Yes|Yes||  
|SQL Server 2014||||Yes|Yes|| 
|SQL Server 2016|||||Yes||  
|SQL Azure||||||Yes|  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]  
> Conversion of the database objects is carried out as per the project type but not as per the version of the SQL Server you are connected to. In case of SQL Server 2005 project, Conversion is carried out as per SQL Server 2005 even though you are connected to a higher version of SQL Server (SQL Server 2008 or SQL Server 2012 or SQL Server 2014 or SQL Server 2016)  
  
## Reconnecting to SQL Server  
Your connection to SQL Server stays active until you close the project. When you reopen the project, you must reconnect to SQL Server if you want an active connection to the server. You can work offline until you update metadata, load database objects into SQL Server, and migrate data.  
  
The procedure for reconnecting to SQL Server is the same as the procedure for establishing a connection.  
  
## Synchronizing SQL Server Metadata  
Metadata about the SQL Server databases is not automatically updated. The metadata in SQL Server Metadata Explorer is a snapshot of the metadata when you first connected to SQL Server, or the last time that you manually updated metadata. You can manually update metadata for all databases, or for any single database or database object.  
  
**To synchronize metadata**  
  
1.  Make sure that you are connected to SQL Server.  
  
2.  In SQL Server Metadata Explorer, select the check box next to the database or database schema that you want to update.  
  
    For example, to update the metadata for all databases, select the box next to **Databases**.  
  
3.  Right-click Databases or the individual database or database schema, and then select **Synchronize with Database**.  
  
## Next Step  
The next step in the migration depends on your project needs:  
  
-   If you want to customize the mapping between ASE databases and schemas and SQL Server databases and schemas, see [Mapping Sybase ASE Schemas to SQL Server Schemas &#40;SybaseToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/sybase/mapping-sybase-ase-schemas-to-sql-server-schemas--sybasetosql-.md).  
  
-   If you want to customize configuration options for the projects, see [Setting Project Options &#40;SybaseToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/sybase/setting-project-options--sybasetosql-.md).  
  
-   If you want to custom the mapping of source and target data types, see [Mapping Sybase ASE and SQL Server Data Types &#40;SybaseToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/sybase/mapping-sybase-ase-and-sql-server-data-types--sybasetosql-.md).  
  
-   If you do not have to do any of these, you can convert the Sybase ASE database object definitions into SQL Server object definitions. For more information, see [Converting Sybase ASE Database Objects &#40;SybaseToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/sybase/converting-sybase-ase-database-objects--sybasetosql-.md).  
  
## See Also  
[Migrating Sybase ASE Databases to SQL Server - Azure SQL DB &#40;SybaseToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/sybase/migrating-sybase-ase-databases-to-sql-server---azure-sql-db--sybasetosql-.md)  
  
