---
title: "Connecting to SQL Server (DB2eToSQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "08/18/2016"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "sql-ssma"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
applies_to: 
  - "Azure SQL Database"
  - "SQL Server"
ms.assetid: b59803cb-3cc6-41cc-8553-faf90851410e
caps.latest.revision: 8
ms.author: "lonnyb"
manager: "lonnyb"
---
# Connecting to SQL Server (DB2eToSQL)
To migrate DB2 databases to SQL Server 2012, SQL Server2014 or Azure SQL DB you must connect to any of these target instances of SQL Server. When you connect, SSMA obtains metadata about all the databases in the instance of SQL Server and displays database metadata in the SQL Server Metadata Explorer. SSMA stores information about which instance of SQL Server you are connected to, but does not store passwords.  
  
Your connection to SQL Server stays active until you close the project. When you reopen the project, you must reconnect to SQL Server if you want an active connection to the server. You can work offline until you load database objects into SQL Server and migrate data.  
  
Metadata about the instance of SQL Server is not automatically synchronized. Instead, to update the metadata in SQL Server Metadata Explorer, you must manually update the SQL Server metadata. For more information, see the "Synchronizing SQL Server Metadata" section later in this topic.  
  
## Required SQL Server Permissions  
The account that is used to connect to SQL Server requires different permissions depending on the actions that the account performs:  
  
-   To convert DB2 objects to Transact-SQL syntax, to update metadata from SQL Server, or to save converted syntax to scripts, the account must have permission to log on to the instance of SQL Server.  
  
-   To load database objects into SQL Server, the account must be a member of the   **sysadmin** server role. This is required to install CLR assemblies.  
  
-   To migrate data to SQL Server, the account must be a member of the **sysadmin** server role. This is required to run the SQL Server Agent data migration packages.  
  
-   To run the code that is generated by SSMA, the account must have **Execute** permissions for all user-defined functions in the **ssma_DB2** schema of the target database. These functions provide equivalent functionality of DB2 system functions, and are used by converted objects.  
  
If the account that is used to connect to SQL Server is to perform all migration tasks, the account must be a member of the **sysadmin** server role.  
  
## Establishing a SQL Server Connection  
Before you convert DB2 database objects to SQL Server syntax, you must establish a connection to the instance of SQL Server where you want to migrate the DB2 database or databases.  
  
When you define the connection properties, you also specify the database where objects and data will be migrated. You can customize this mapping at the DB2 schema level after you connect to SQL Server. For more information, see [Mapping DB2 Schemas to SQL Server Schemas &#40;DB2ToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/db2/mapping-db2-schemas-to-sql-server-schemas--db2tosql-.md).  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]  
> Before you try to connect to SQL Server, make sure that the instance of SQL Server is running and can accept connections.  
  
**To connect to SQL Server**  
  
1.  On the **File** menu, select **Connect to SQL Server**.  
  
    If you previously connected to SQL Server, the command name will be **Reconnect to SQL Server**.  
  
2.  In the connection dialog box, enter or select the name of the instance of SQL Server.  
  
    -   If you are connecting to the default instance on the local computer, you can enter **localhost** or a dot (**.**).  
  
    -   If you are connecting to the default instance on another computer, enter the name of the computer.  
  
    -   If you are connecting to a named instance on another computer, enter the computer name followed by a backslash and then the instance name, such as MyServer\MyInstance.  
  
3.  If your instance of SQL Server is configured to accept connections on a non-default port, enter the port number that is used for SQL Server connections in the **Server port** box. For the default instance of SQL Server, the default port number is 1433. For named instances, SSMA will try to obtain the port number from the SQL Server Browser Service.  
  
4.  In the **Database** box, enter the name of the target database.  
  
    This option is not available when you reconnect to SQL Server.  
  
5.  In the **Authentication** box, select the authentication type to use for the connection. To use the current Windows account, select **Windows Authentication**. To use a SQL Server login, select **SQL Server Authentication**, and then provide the login name and password.  
  
6.  For Secure connection, two controls are added, the **Encrypt Connection** and **TrustServerCertificate** check boxes. Only when **Encrypt Connection** is checked, the **TrustServerCertificate** check box is visible. When **Encrypt Connection** is checked (true) and **TrustServerCertificate** is unchecked (false), it will validate the SQL Server SSL certificate. Validating the server certificate is a part of the SSL handshake and ensures that the server is the correct server to connect to. To ensure this, a certificate must be installed on the client side as well as on the server side.  
  
7.  Click **Connect**.  
  
**Higher Version Compatability**  
  
-   You will be able to connect to SQL Server 2008 and SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014 and SQL Server 2016 when the migration project created is SQL Server 2005.  
  
-   You will be able to connect to SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014 and SQL Server 2016 when the migration project created is SQL Server 2008 but you will not be able to connect to lower versions i.e. SQL Server 2005.  
  
-   You will be able to connect to SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014 and SQL Server 2016 when the project created is SQL Server 2012.  
  
||||||  
|-|-|-|-|-|  
|**PROJECT TYPE Vs TARGET SERVER VERSION**|SQL Server 2012 <br />(Version:11.x)|SQL Server 2014 <br />(Version:12.x)|SQL Server 2016 <br />(Version:13.x)|Azure SQL DB|  
|SQL Server 2012|Yes|Yes|Yes||  
|SQL Server 2014||Yes|Yes||  
|SQL Server 2014|||Yes||  
|Azure SQL DB||||Yes|  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]  
> Conversion of the database objects is carried out as per the project type but not as per the version of the SQL Server you are connected to. In case of SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2016 or Azure SQL DB.  
  
## Synchronizing SQL Server Metadata  
Metadata about SQL Server databases is not automatically updated. The metadata in SQL Server Metadata Explorer is a snapshot of the metadata when you first connected to SQL Server, or the last time that you manually updated metadata. You can manually update metadata for all databases, or for any single database or database object.  
  
**To synchronize metadata**  
  
1.  Make sure that you are connected to SQL Server.  
  
2.  In SQL Server Metadata Explorer, select the check box next to the database or database schema that you want to update.  
  
    For example, to update the metadata for all databases, select the box next to **Databases**.  
  
3.  Right-click **Databases**, or the individual database or database schema, and then select **Synchronize with Database**.  
  
## Next Step  
The next step in the migration depends on your project needs:  
  
-   To customize the mapping between DB2 schemas and SQL Server databases and schemas, see [Mapping DB2 Schemas to SQL Server Schemas &#40;DB2ToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/db2/mapping-db2-schemas-to-sql-server-schemas--db2tosql-.md).  
  
-   To customize configuration options for the projects, see [Project Settings &#40;Conversion&#41; &#40;DB2ToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/db2/project-settings--conversion---db2tosql-.md) and related sections.  
  
-   To customize the mapping of source and target data types, see [Mapping DB2 and SQL Server Data Types &#40;DB2ToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/db2/mapping-db2-and-sql-server-data-types--db2tosql-.md).  
  
-   If you do not have to perform any of these tasks, you can convert the DB2 database object definitions into SQL Server object definitions. For more information, see [Converting DB2 Schemas &#40;DB2ToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/db2/converting-db2-schemas--db2tosql-.md).  
  
## See Also  
[Migrating DB2 Databases to SQL Server &#40;DB2ToSQL&#41;](../../ssma/db2/migrating-db2-databases-to-sql-server--db2tosql-.md)  
  
