---
title: "Set a SQL Server Alias for the SQL Server Agent Service (SQL Server Management Studio) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/17/2016"
ms.prod: "sql-non-specified"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "tools-ssms"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "aliases [SQL Server], creating"
  - "SQL Server Agent, aliases"
ms.assetid: 02d6295d-ab52-44f0-8f1b-f3910a507d8f
caps.latest.revision: 5
ms.author: "sstein"
manager: "jhubbard"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "pt-br"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
---
# Set a SQL Server Alias for the SQL Server Agent Service (SQL Server Management Studio)
This topic describes how to set a Microsoft SQL Server alias for SQL Server Agent to use to connect to the Database Engine by using SQL Server Management Studio. By default, the SQL Server Agent service connects to an instance of SQL Server over named pipes by using dynamic server names that require no additional client configuration. You need to configure a server connection alias only if you are not using the default network transport or if you are connecting to an instance of SQL Server that listens on an alternate named pipe.  
  
**In This Topic**  
  
-   **Before you begin:**  
  
    [Limitations and Restrictions](#Restrictions)  
  
    [Security](#Security)  
  
-   [To set a SQL Server Alias for the SQL Server Agent Service using SQL Server Management Studio](#SSMSProcedure)  
  
## <a name="BeforeYouBegin"></a>Before You Begin  
  
### <a name="Restrictions"></a>Limitations and Restrictions  
  
-   SQL Server Agent will not work correctly unless you select an alias that refers to the local instance of SQL Server.  
  
-   Object Explorer only displays the SQL Server Agent node if you have permission to use it.  
  
### <a name="Security"></a>Security  
  
#### <a name="Permissions"></a>Permissions  
To perform its functions, SQL Server Agent must be configured to use the credentials of an account that is a member of the **sysadmin** fixed server role in SQL Server. The account must have the following Windows permissions:  
  
-   Log on as a service (SeServiceLogonRight)  
  
-   Replace a process-level token (SeAssignPrimaryTokenPrivilege)  
  
-   Bypass traverse checking (SeChangeNotifyPrivilege)  
  
-   Adjust memory quotas for a process (SeIncreaseQuotaPrivilege)  
  
For more information about the Windows permissions required for the SQL Server Agent service account, see [Select an Account for the SQL Server Agent Service](../ssms/select-an-account-for-the-sql-server-agent-service.md) and [Setting Up Windows Service Accounts](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/309b9dac-0b3a-4617-85ef-c4519ce9d014).  
  
## <a name="SSMSProcedure"></a>Using SQL Server Management Studio  
  
#### To set a SQL Server Alias for the SQL Server Agent Service  
  
1.  In the **Object Explorer**, connect to an instance of the SQL Server Database Engine and then expand that instance.  
  
2.  Right-click **SQL Server Agent**, and then click **Properties**.  
  
3.  In the **SQL Server Agent Properties***server_name* dialog box, under **Select a page**, select **Connection**, and  
  
4.  In the **Alias local host server** box, type the alias of the server to which SQL Server Agent should connect.  
  
5.  Click **OK**.  
  
