---
title: "Set the SQL Server Connection for the SQL Server Agent Service (SQL Server Management Studio) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/17/2016"
ms.prod: "sql-non-specified"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "tools-ssms"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "SQL Server Agent, connections"
  - "connections [SQL Server], SQL Server Agent service"
ms.assetid: 28b6178b-0a9e-4f2c-8562-7a62d2d2a285
caps.latest.revision: 5
ms.author: "sstein"
manager: "jhubbard"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "pt-br"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
---
# Set the SQL Server Connection for the SQL Server Agent Service (SQL Server Management Studio)
This topic describes how to set the connection between SQL Server Agent and the Database Engine in SQL Server 2016 by using SQL Server Management Studio. The SQL Server Agent service can connect to a local instance of SQL Server by using Windows Authentication.  
  
**In This Topic**  
  
-   **Before you begin:**  
  
    [Limitations and Restrictions](#Restrictions)  
  
    [Security](#Security)  
  
-   **To set the SQL Server Connection for the SQL Server Agent, using:**  
  
    [SQL Server Management Studio](#SSMSProcedure)  
  
## <a name="BeforeYouBegin"></a>Before You Begin  
  
### <a name="Restrictions"></a>Limitations and Restrictions  
  
-   Object Explorer only displays the SQL Server Agent node if you have permission to use it.  
  
-   Beginning with SQL Server 2005, SQL Server Agent does not support SQL Server Authentication. This option is available only when you administer an earlier version of SQL Server.  
  
### <a name="Security"></a>Security  
  
#### <a name="Permissions"></a>Permissions  
To perform its functions, SQL Server Agent must be configured to use the credentials of an account that is a member of the **sysadmin** fixed server role in SQL Server. The account must have the following Windows permissions:  
  
-   Log on as a service (SeServiceLogonRight)  
  
-   Replace a process-level token (SeAssignPrimaryTokenPrivilege)  
  
-   Bypass traverse checking (SeChangeNotifyPrivilege)  
  
-   Adjust memory quotas for a process (SeIncreaseQuotaPrivilege)  
  
For more information about the Windows permissions required for the SQL Server Agent service account, see [Select an Account for the SQL Server Agent Service](../ssms/select-an-account-for-the-sql-server-agent-service.md) and [Setting Up Windows Service Accounts](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/309b9dac-0b3a-4617-85ef-c4519ce9d014).  
  
## <a name="SSMSProcedure"></a>Using SQL Server Management Studio  
  
#### To set the SQL Server connection  
  
1.  In **Object Explorer**, click the plus sign to expand the server that you want to set up with a connection to its SQL Server Agent Service.  
  
2.  Right-click **SQL Server Agent** and select **Properties**.  
  
3.  In the **SQL Server Agent Properties***sever_name* dialog box, under **Select a page**, click **Connection**.  
  
4.  Under **SQL Server connection**, select **Use Windows Authentication** to enable SQL Server Agent to connect to an instance of the SQL Server Database Engine with Microsoft Windows Authentication. Connections to SQL Server 2005 and later databases require Windows Authentication.  
  
