---
title: "Set the Service Startup Account for SQL Server Agent (SQL Server Configuration Manager) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/17/2016"
ms.prod: "sql-non-specified"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "tools-ssms"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "SQL Server Agent, service accounts"
  - "startup accounts [SQL Server]"
  - "service startup accounts [SQL Server Agent]"
ms.assetid: 46ffe818-ebb5-43a0-840b-923f219a2472
caps.latest.revision: 5
ms.author: "sstein"
manager: "jhubbard"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "pt-br"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
---
# Set the Service Startup Account for SQL Server Agent (SQL Server Configuration Manager)
The SQL Server Agent service startup account defines the Windows account that SQL Server Agent runs as, as well as its network permissions. This topic describes how to set the SQL Server Agent service account with SQL Server Configuration Manager in SQL Server 2016 by using SQL Server Management Studio.  
  
**In This Topic**  
  
-   **Before you begin:**  
  
    [Limitations and Restrictions](#Restrictions)  
  
    [Security](#Security)  
  
-   [To set the Service Startup Account for SQL Server Agent using SQL Server Management Studio](#SSMSProcedure)  
  
## <a name="BeforeYouBegin"></a>Before You Begin  
  
### <a name="Restrictions"></a>Limitations and Restrictions  
  
-   Beginning with SQL Server 2005, SQL Server Agent no longer requires that the service startup account be a member of the Microsoft Administrators group. However, the SQL Server Agent service startup account must be a member of the SQL Serversysadmin fixed server role. The account must also be a member of the msdb database role TargetServersRole on the master server if multiserver job processing is used.  
  
-   Object Explorer only displays the SQL Server Agent node if you have permission to use it.  
  
### <a name="Security"></a>Security  
  
#### <a name="Permissions"></a>Permissions  
To perform its functions, SQL Server Agent must be configured to use the credentials of an account that is a member of the **sysadmin** fixed server role in SQL Server. The account must have the following Windows permissions:  
  
-   Log on as a service (SeServiceLogonRight)  
  
-   Replace a process-level token (SeAssignPrimaryTokenPrivilege)  
  
-   Bypass traverse checking (SeChangeNotifyPrivilege)  
  
-   Adjust memory quotas for a process (SeIncreaseQuotaPrivilege)  
  
For more information about the Windows permissions required for the SQL Server Agent service account, see [Select an Account for the SQL Server Agent Service](../ssms/select-an-account-for-the-sql-server-agent-service.md) and [Setting Up Windows Service Accounts](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/309b9dac-0b3a-4617-85ef-c4519ce9d014).  
  
## <a name="SSMSProcedure"></a>Using SQL Server Management Studio  
  
#### To set the Service Startup Account for SQL Server Agent  
  
1.  In **Registered Servers**, click the plus sign to expand **Database Engine**.  
  
2.  Click the plus sign to expand the **Local Server Groups** folder.  
  
3.  Right-click the server instance where you want set up the Service Startup Account, and select **SQL Server Configuration Manager…**.  
  
4.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.  
  
5.  In SQL Server Configuration Manager, in the console pane, select **SQL Server Services**.  
  
6.  In the details pane, right-click **SQL Server Agent***(server_name)*, where *server_name* is the name of the SQL Server Agent instance for which you want to change the service startup account, and select **Properties**.  
  
7.  In the **SQL Server Agent***(server_name)* **Properties** dialog box, in the **Log On** tab, select one of the following options under **Log on as**:  
  
    -   **Built-in account**: select this option if your jobs require resources from the local server only. For information about how to choose a Windows built-in account type, see [Selecting an Account for SQL Server Agent Service.](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ms191543.aspx)  
  
        > [!IMPORTANT]  
        > The SQL Server Agent service does not support the **Local Service** account in SQL Server Management Studio.  
  
    -   **This account**: select this option if your jobs require resources across the network, including application resources; if you want to forward events to other Windows application logs; or if you want to notify operators through e-mail or pagers.  
  
        If you select this option:  
  
        1.  In the **Account Name** box, enter the account that will be used to run SQL Server Agent. Alternately, click **Browse** to open the **Select User or Group** dialog box and select the account to use.  
  
        2.  In the **Password** box, enter the password for the account. Re-enter the password in the **Confirm password** box.  
  
8.  Click **OK**.  
  
9. In SQL Server Configuration Manager, click the **Close** button.  
  
