---
title: "Attribute Relationship Diagram (Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer) (Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "02/27/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2016"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "analysis-services"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "sql13.asvs.dimensiondesigner.ardesigner.ardiagram.f1"
ms.assetid: 320989ad-bd95-43f4-a2e7-b262d66dbda7
caps.latest.revision: 15
ms.author: "owend"
manager: "erikre"
robots: noindex,nofollow
---
# Attribute Relationship Diagram (Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer) (Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data)
  Use the pane immediately under the toolbar on the **Attribute Relationships** tab to view the attribute relationship diagram, and to create, modify, and delete attribute relationships.  
  
 **To view the pane that contains the attribute relationship diagram**  
  
-   In [!INCLUDE[ssBIDevStudioFull](../a9notintoc/includes/ssbidevstudiofull-md.md)], in Solution Explorer, double-click a dimension to open the Dimension Designer, and then click the **Attribute Relationship** tab.  
  
## Using the Attribute Relationship Diagram  
 Use the attribute relationship diagram to create, edit or delete attribute relationships. The attribute relationship diagram will also highlight problematic attribute relationships and display a description of the issue in a tooltip.  
  
 There are three separate shortcut menus available in the diagram: the diagram shortcut menu, the attribute shortcut menu, and the relationship shortcut menu.  
  
### Diagram Shortcut Menu  
 To open the shortcut menu for the attribute relationship diagram, right-click the background of the diagram. The diagram shortcut menu has the following commands:  
  
 **New Attribute Relationship**  
 Opens the **Create Attribute Relationship** dialog box in which you can define a new attribute relationship.  
  
 For more information, see [Create Attribute Relationship and Edit Attribute Relationship Dialog Boxes &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/create-attribute-relationship-and-edit-attribute-relationship-dialogs.md) and [Define Attribute Relationships](../analysis-services/multidimensional-models/attribute-relationships-define.md).  
  
 **Arrange Shapes**  
 Arranges the shapes according to the layout algorithm that Dimension Designer uses.  
  
 **Auto Arrange Shapes**  
 Automatically arranges the shapes in the diagram according to the layout algorithm that Dimension Designer uses. By default, **Auto Arrange Shapes** is enabled.  
  
 **Show List Views**  
 Displays or hides the **Attributes** and **Attribute Relationships** lists. These lists appear in their own panes immediately under the pane that contains the attribute relationship diagram.  
  
 **Expand All Shapes**  
 Displays the grouped attributes that are associated with the top-level attributes. Grouped attributes are only visible when the shapes in the attribute relationship diagram are expanded.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  If you click this option, the Dimension Designer will return the shapes in the attribute relationship diagram back to the default layout that the designer uses.  
  
 **Collapse All Shapes**  
 Hides the grouped attributes that are associated with the top-level attributes.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  If you click this option, the Dimension Designer will return the shapes in the attribute relationship diagram back to the default layout that the designer uses.  
  
 **Zoom**  
 Displays a list of available zoom options.  
  
### Attribute Shortcut Menu  
 To open the attribute shortcut menu, right-click an attribute in the attribute relationship diagram. The attribute shortcut menu has the following commands:  
  
 **New Attribute Relationship**  
 Opens the **Create Attribute Relationship** dialog box in which you can define a new attribute relationship.  
  
 For more information, see [Create Attribute Relationship and Edit Attribute Relationship Dialog Boxes &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/create-attribute-relationship-and-edit-attribute-relationship-dialogs.md) and [Define Attribute Relationships](../analysis-services/multidimensional-models/attribute-relationships-define.md).  
  
 **Properties**  
 Displays the attribute's properties in the **Properties** window.  
  
### Relationship Shortcut Menu  
 To open the relationship shortcut menu, right-click the arrow that identifies the relationship between two attributes. The relationship shortcut menu has the following commands:  
  
 **Edit Attribute Relationship**  
 Opens the **Edit Attribute Relationship** dialog box in which you can modify the attribute relationship.  
  
 For more information, see [Create Attribute Relationship and Edit Attribute Relationship Dialog Boxes &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/create-attribute-relationship-and-edit-attribute-relationship-dialogs.md) and [Define Attribute Relationships](../analysis-services/multidimensional-models/attribute-relationships-define.md).  
  
 **Relationship Type**  
 Sets the relationship type to either **Flexible** or **Rigid**. In a flexible relationship, relationships between members change over time. In a rigid relationship, relationships between members do not change over time.  
  
 **Delete**  
 Deletes the attribute relationship.  
  
 **Properties**  
 Displays the relationship's properties in the **Properties** window.  
  
## See Also  
 [Attribute Relationships &#40;Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/228d1d91-7524-4773-9c83-39b04e8534d3.md)   
 [Toolbar &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/9c0415a8-b780-40dd-a6dd-6ee0e30a24cb.md)   
 [Attributes &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/850a68aa-1d70-4f0f-ba39-aeca834596c1.md)   
 [Attribute Relationships &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/abc8af00-5389-456d-b0f1-ec3e7403d4f9.md)  
  
  