---
title: "Dimensions (Cube Structure Tab, Cube Designer) (Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "02/27/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2016"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "analysis-services"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "sql13.asvs.cubeeditor.cubebuilder.dimensionspane.f1"
ms.assetid: 37eb7525-b423-4df5-9e62-9f4680d47b9b
caps.latest.revision: 22
ms.author: "owend"
manager: "erikre"
robots: noindex,nofollow
---
# Dimensions (Cube Structure Tab, Cube Designer) (Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data)
  Use the **Dimensions** pane to view and edit cube dimensions, including hierarchies and attributes, on the **Cube Structure** tab in Cube Designer.  
  
## Options  
 **Hierarchies**  
 Click to display the available cube dimensions and their associated cube hierarchies.  
  
 Expand a cube dimension and select **Edit \<dimension>** to display Dimension Designer and edit the database dimension on which the cube dimension is based. For more information about Dimension Designer, see [Dimension Designer &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/dimension-designer-analysis-services-multidimensional-data.md).  
  
 **Attributes**  
 Click to display the available cube dimensions and their associated cube attributes.  
  
 Expand a cube dimension and select **Edit \<dimension>** to display Dimension Designer and edit the database dimension on which the cube dimension is based. For more information about Dimension Designer, see [Dimension Designer &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/dimension-designer-analysis-services-multidimensional-data.md).  
  
## Context Menu  
 The following options are available in the context menu displayed by right-clicking the **Dimensions** pane:  
  
 **Add Cube Dimension**  
 Click to display the **Add Cube Dimension** dialog box and add references to existing or new database dimensions in the cube. For more information about the **Add Cube Dimension** dialog box, see [Add Cube Dimension Dialog Box &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/add-cube-dimension-dialog-box-analysis-services-multidimensional-data.md).  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  This option is displayed only if a dimension is selected.  
  
 **Edit Dimension**  
 Click to display Dimension Designer and edit the database dimension on which the cube dimension is based. For more information about Dimension Designer, see [Dimension Designer &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/dimension-designer-analysis-services-multidimensional-data.md).  
  
 **Rename**  
 Click to rename the selected cube dimension for the cube.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  Renaming a cube dimension in the **Dimensions** pane does not rename the database dimension on which the cube dimension is based.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  This option is displayed only if a dimension is selected.  
  
 **Delete**  
 Click to remove the selected cube dimension from the cube.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  Removing a cube dimension from the **Dimensions** pane does not delete the database dimension on which the cube dimension is based.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  This option is displayed only if a dimension is selected.  
  
 **Move Up**  
 Click to move the selected cube database up one place.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  This option is displayed only if a dimension is selected.  
  
 **Move Down**  
 Click to move the selected cube database attribute down one place.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  This option is displayed only if a dimension is selected.  
  
 **New Linked Object**  
 Click to display the **Linked Object Wizard** and link measure groups and dimensions from other cubes, and to import actions, KPIs, and calculations, to the selected cube. For more information about the **Linked Object Wizard**, see [Linked Object Wizard F1 Help](../a9retired/linked-object-wizard-f1-help.md).  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  This option is displayed only if a dimension is selected.  
  
 **Properties**  
 Click to display the **Properties** window of [!INCLUDE[ssBIDevStudioFull](../a9notintoc/includes/ssbidevstudiofull-md.md)] for the selected cube dimension, cube hierarchy, or cube attribute.  
  
## See Also  
 [Toolbar &#40;Cube Structure Tab, Cube Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/7bb13932-350d-4c6c-96f7-893d6cbdf449.md)   
 [Measures &#40;Cube Structure Tab, Cube Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/be70f63b-58f2-4eff-81bc-c86d8229e617.md)   
 [Data Source View &#40;Cube Structure Tab, Cube Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/1e39c910-5c10-4624-be27-ca02a461b46b.md)   
 [Cube Structure &#40;Cube Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/cube-structure-cube-designer-analysis-services-multidimensional-data.md)  
  
  