---
title: "Attributes (Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer) (Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "02/27/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2016"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "analysis-services"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "sql13.asvs.dimensiondesigner.ardesigner.attributes.f1"
ms.assetid: 850a68aa-1d70-4f0f-ba39-aeca834596c1
caps.latest.revision: 13
ms.author: "owend"
manager: "erikre"
robots: noindex,nofollow
---
# Attributes (Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer) (Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data)
  Use the **Attributes** list to locate a specific attribute in the attribute relationship diagram or to define a new attribute relationship. This pane appears immediately under the pane that contains the attribute relationship diagram.  
  
 **To view the Attributes pane**  
  
1.  In [!INCLUDE[ssBIDevStudioFull](../a9notintoc/includes/ssbidevstudiofull-md.md)], in Solution Explorer, double-click a dimension to open the Dimension Designer, and then click the **Attribute Relationship** tab.  
  
2.  On the toolbar, click the **Show List Views** icon.  
  
## Using the Attributes List  
 The **Attributes** list displays all of the attributes in the dimension.  
  
 To locate a specific attribute in the attribute relationship diagram, double-click the attribute in the list. The attribute will be highlighted in the attribute relationship diagram and its properties will appear in the Properties window. If the attribute is not shown in the attribute relationship diagram, only the attribute's properties will appear in the **Properties** window.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  You can select multiple attributes in the list and make changes.  
  
 To define a new relationship or rename the attribute, right-click the attribute and click the corresponding command in the shortcut menu.  
  
### Shortcut Menu Options  
 **New Attribute Relationship**  
 Opens the **Create Attribute Relationship** dialog box in which you can define a new attribute relationship.  
  
 For more information, see [Create Attribute Relationship and Edit Attribute Relationship Dialog Boxes &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/create-attribute-relationship-and-edit-attribute-relationship-dialogs.md) and [Define Attribute Relationships](../analysis-services/multidimensional-models/attribute-relationships-define.md).  
  
 **Rename**  
 Highlights the attribute's name in the list and enables you to modify this text.  
  
 **Properties**  
 Displays the attribute's properties in the **Properties** window.  
  
## See Also  
 [Attribute Relationships &#40;Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/228d1d91-7524-4773-9c83-39b04e8534d3.md)   
 [Toolbar &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/9c0415a8-b780-40dd-a6dd-6ee0e30a24cb.md)   
 [Attribute Relationship Diagram &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/320989ad-bd95-43f4-a2e7-b262d66dbda7.md)   
 [Attribute Relationships &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/abc8af00-5389-456d-b0f1-ec3e7403d4f9.md)  
  
  