---
title: "Attribute Relationships (Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer) (Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "02/27/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2016"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "analysis-services"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "sql13.asvs.dimensiondesigner.ardesigner.attributerelationships.f1"
ms.assetid: abc8af00-5389-456d-b0f1-ec3e7403d4f9
caps.latest.revision: 13
ms.author: "owend"
manager: "erikre"
robots: noindex,nofollow
---
# Attribute Relationships (Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer) (Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data)
  Use the **Attribute Relationship** list to locate a specific attribute relationship in the attribute relationship diagram and to manage that relationship. This pane appears immediately under the pane that contains the attribute relationship diagram.  
  
 **To view the Attribute Relationships pane**  
  
1.  In [!INCLUDE[ssBIDevStudioFull](../a9notintoc/includes/ssbidevstudiofull-md.md)], in Solution Explorer, double-click a dimension to open the Dimension Designer, and then click the **Attribute Relationship** tab.  
  
2.  On the toolbar, click the **Show List Views** icon.  
  
## Using the Attribute Relationships List  
 The **Attribute Relationships** list displays all the attribute relationships in the dimension.  
  
 To locate a specific attribute relationship in the attribute relationship diagram, double-click the attribute in the list. The attribute relationship will be highlighted in the attribute relationship diagram and its properties will appear in the Properties window.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  You can select multiple attribute relationships in the list and make changes.  
  
 If an attribute relationship is incorrect, an icon appears on the arrow connecting to the two attributes. To determine why the relationship is not correct, pause on the icon and read the description provided in the tooltip.  
  
 To manage the attribute relationship, right-click the attribute relationship and click the appropriate command in the shortcut menu.  
  
### Shortcut Menu Options  
 **Edit Attribute Relationship**  
 Opens the **Edit Attribute Relationship** dialog box in which you can modify the attribute relationship.  
  
 For more information, see [Create Attribute Relationship and Edit Attribute Relationship Dialog Boxes &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/create-attribute-relationship-and-edit-attribute-relationship-dialogs.md) and [Define Attribute Relationships](../analysis-services/multidimensional-models/attribute-relationships-define.md).  
  
 **Relationship Type**  
 Sets the relationship type to either **Flexible** or **Rigid**. In a flexible relationship, relationships between members change over time. In a rigid relationship, relationships between members do not change over time.  
  
 **Delete**  
 Deletes the selected attribute relationship.  
  
 **Properties**  
 Displays the attribute's properties in the **Properties** window.  
  
## See Also  
 [Attribute Relationships &#40;Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/228d1d91-7524-4773-9c83-39b04e8534d3.md)   
 [Toolbar &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/9c0415a8-b780-40dd-a6dd-6ee0e30a24cb.md)   
 [Attributes &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/850a68aa-1d70-4f0f-ba39-aeca834596c1.md)   
 [Attribute Relationship Diagram &#40;Attribute Relationship Designer Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/320989ad-bd95-43f4-a2e7-b262d66dbda7.md)  
  
  