---
title: "Hierarchies (Dimension Structure Tab, Dimension Designer) (Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "02/27/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2016"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "analysis-services"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "sql.asvs.dimensiondesigner.dbv.hierarchieslevelspane.f1"
ms.assetid: c37db6c1-b5a5-44e1-ae6d-a96fb9769e68
caps.latest.revision: 31
ms.author: "owend"
manager: "erikre"
robots: noindex,nofollow
---
# Hierarchies (Dimension Structure Tab, Dimension Designer) (Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data)
  Use the **Hierarchies** pane to manage the hierarchies and levels for the currently selected dimension. For more information, see [Create User-Defined Hierarchies](../analysis-services/multidimensional-models/user-defined-hierarchies-create.md).  
  
 You can use the Hierarchies pane to do the following procedures:  
  
-   Create a new hierarchy by dragging an attribute from the **Attributes** pane to the **Hierarchies** pane.  
  
-   Show or hide member properties for all the levels in the hierarchy by clicking the arrow next to the hierarchy name.  
  
-   Show or hide attribute relationships by clicking the arrow next to the level name.  
  
 **To display the Hierarchies pane**  
  
1.  In [!INCLUDE[ssBIDevStudioFull](../a9notintoc/includes/ssbidevstudiofull-md.md)], open the [!INCLUDE[ssASnoversion](../a9notintoc/includes/ssasnoversion-md.md)] project, and then open the dimension that you want.  
  
2.  If not selected, click the **Dimension Structure** tab.  
  
## Options  
 **Hierarchies**  
 Displays the currently created hierarchies. Within each hierarchy are the attributes that make up the levels of the hierarchy. Attribute relationships are also shown but they are read-only.  
  
## See Also  
 [Dimension Structure &#40;Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/dimension-structure-dimension-designer-analysis-services-multidimensional-data.md)   
 [Attributes &#40;Dimension Structure Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/627eaa08-7638-4edd-bdfa-0d8175a7cde5.md)   
 [Data Source View &#40;Dimension Structure Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/c4bd3c5e-8986-448f-b9db-3551f50f0696.md)   
 [Toolbar &#40;Dimension Structure Tab, Dimension Designer&#41; &#40;Analysis Services - Multidimensional Data&#41;](../a9retired/41f01eed-e50f-44c8-a8e0-97e01bd66bd3.md)  
  
  